Today we will look at the case of the Ambrusco.
It is a good case to continue
to reinforce the Blue Ocean
strategy, especially considering
that we are starting from
a real Red Ocean.
Because I think you will be with me
Carlos in that the wine industry,
and also, look at it, Richie, the
CEO of Vintay, told us, is a very
very competitive industry, in
which it is very difficult
to differentiate and also very fragmented.
With, if we talk about the wine industry
worldwide, we are talking about hundreds
of thousands of cellars in which
it is very difficult to really
stand out, differentiate yourself, etc.
You just have to go to the lineal in
a supermarket and good, see everything
there.
If you put yourself in the role of
the cellars that are selling, that
are the owners of that wine, it
is clear that it is very complicated.
And the Ambrusco is a good example
of how to think about non-customers,
how to create value innovation, etc.
Tell us a little about how
this strategic evolution is born.
Well, in fact, the Ambrusco is a good
example of how in an industry it
is so saturated, as you say, to
do something different thinking
about non-customer segments.
What are the non-customer
segments, the main non-
customer segments for a wine
cellar?
In general, all those people who
do not usually drink wine and do
not usually drink wine for many reasons.
Because they do not know it well, because
they are not able to appreciate
it, because it gives them some shame
not to know how to choose a good wine
if it is in appropriate conditions
or not, because they do not like
to drink alcoholic beverages in general.
Well, thinking about them, the
Ambrusco appears with a very
different proposal to what exists
currently or existed at that
time in the market.
If we see the strategic picture and
to summarize it, as the current
situation we see two curves of value,
the red, a reserve wine, a high-end
wine and therefore also high price,
which without
any but that also do not provide
a great differentiation.
What are the factors or variables
in this sector really investing in?
As we are seeing in the image, there
is a whole investment well in
bottle, in creating a brand in
the market that allows me to
a certain degree of differentiation,
some design, sometimes to have
a designation of origin and
for that I have to have my
vineyards in a certain area, etc.
Well, all that is true that configures
different value proposals for those
who appreciate wine, but if
we think of a segment of customers
who usually do not drink
wine for the reasons that he
said, we see in the image
the value curve, the Ambrusco
value proposal.
If we analyze a little how it has been
playing with the different
variables, we see that in price it
has opted to think of a non-drinker
of wine with an affordable price,
logically we will hardly convince
someone who does not drink wine
if we offer a very high price
for the bottle.
The brand does not seem very reasonable
to invest in it in a segment,
I insist, that a priori has
little interest in wine.
Years in barrels I don’t want to
tell you, it doesn’t take 30 minutes
in a barrels, because we really
go to a segment that neither
appreciates it nor sees
value.
Of course, I understand Carlos
that this particular factor, the
fact that in the processes
that ageing is much less, that
there is no barricade, has
to have a huge impact on the
decrease in costs.
Of course, in effect, part of that decrease
is taken to the price and another
part without any better profitability.
Because, for example, the design,
I’m seeing the design, well, it’
s true that you decrease the design,
but well, the design in the end
is not a cost factor I understand
that where innovation is really
here is in simplifying
the processes of wine making,
which is basically aging.
And the brand investment too, because
in some way it is something that
does not impact, in which a non-
drinking customer of wine is decided
with a brand, again the variety
of offer also, a lambrusco, because
we have mainly pink wine with
a little needle, some white
and some red, but mainly a variety
very focused on pink wine.
What you say about the variety
of supply is a factor that
also has a cost impact on
all animal industries, i.
e. on products.
I spoke recently with a
watch maker from one of the leading
companies worldwide and I told
you that they have a lot of
watches, a lot of models of
watches and I spoke, for example,
that Rolex was selling the submariner,
because it has sold millions and
millions of that model and, of course,
when you get to have a very little
variety of offer, effectively,
in your profitability they are
much higher and, in this case,
the cellars usually have white,
red, well, they have very
different types of wines,
that is and the lambrusco,
because what it has is, you
said, there are two or something
like that.
Well, mainly pink, as I said, if you
are able to aggregate and concentrate
your supply in two or three maximum
products, in the end it is infinitely
more profitable because economies
of scale are produced than when
you fragment your portfolio a lot,
because it complicates much more.
In return and thinking again for
non-drinkers of wine, we
find that lambrusco makes a slightly
different use, it is a wine easy
to drink, easy to choose,
in general, with that it is fresh
is more than enough for it
to be well, that is found in
supermarkets.
Well, because we see a value
proposal that, without being the best
wine, there are people who would even
say that it doesn’t even get to be
wine, it is undoubtedly the best wine
value proposal for the non-drinkers
segment.
That is, if we saw it from the point
of view of the rice maltrease,
what has decreased a lot are the
factors of brand, ageing,
design, design and so and then
what they have done is to create
some, create factors that never,
that the rest of the cellars, is
that they never had taken into account,
because a cellar has never taken
into account that their wine is
easy to drink or easy to choose,
they compete in other things,
compete in the rest of What has
done the Ambruso is to reduce all
the aspects that generate cost
and increase everything that
favors a different use or facilitates
the use of the drink, with a cost
that also generates little impact,
because the easy choice or
that is an easy product
to drink does not generally
impact the cost.
You can think that it is a better
or worse wine, this is a matter of
opinions, but the important and relevant
thing is that more than 40 million
bottles are sold a year and this
is exactly what it is about, making
a wine that is the best wine for
the segment we are addressing, remember
the non-drinkers and that also
generates a business of the
volume we have commented on.
Indeed, if we ask people of industrial
wine sure that many are many fans,
they will tell us what you said,
it is that it is a very bad wine,
it is not that it is a bad wine,
it is good that the Ambruso
is a wine, you fixed it
thought for not drinkers
of wine.
For that segment it is possibly
better than any other wine we could
find in the market no matter how
expensive it is.
Effectively and in addition it is
that it is very bright to go to
non-drinkers of wine, because the rest
of cellars that are hundreds of
thousands of cellars in the world are
all competing for the drinkers
of wine, then if you decide to go
to those who are not drinkers and above
you get them to capture because
your proposal squares them, well
because it is when you have created
a blue cerano and when you manage
to sell 40 million bottles
that is a barbarity.
actually is.